# Definition of Git and how it can improve the productivity and competitiveness of a company. 


Git is considered the most popular and widely used version control system (VCS) today. It was created in 2005 by the creator of the Linux operating system, Linus Torvalds. One of the advantages of Git are performance. Git has a very strong performance and is considered more reliable than other version control systems. Code changes can be easily made, or committed, branches can be compared and merged and code can ultimately be optimized to run better. Another Git advantage is security. Git uses an algorithm called SHA1 which protects the code and change history against accidental and malicious damage. Git also provides for flexibility and wide acceptance. Lastly, Git is a widely supported open source project.

So, why use Git in your organization? Various processes including designing, development, product management, marketing, customer support can be easily handled and maintained using Git in your organization. Git allows for branching capabilities. This means that changes can be made in an isolated environment without affecting the master branch. Git also offers a local repository to developers with its own history of commits, meaning a developer will not require a network connection while performing edits. Git allows for “pull requests” which allows developers to communicate on work before integrating any changes. The reputation of Git and it’s wide popularity amongst developers, not to mention the ease on workflow Git provides, Git can improve the productivity and competitiveness for any company.
